[D1] add a page for remote development (#10657)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/learning/remote-development.md

---
title: Remote development
weight: 6
pcx_content_type: concept
---

# Develop remotely

> D1 has support for remote development, using the [dashboard playground](/workers/learning/playground/#using-the-playground). The dashboard playground uses a browser version of VS Code, letting you rapidly iterate on your Worker entirely in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
D1 supports remote development using the [dashboard playground](/workers/learning/playground/#using-the-playground). The dashboard playground uses a browser version of Visual Studio Code, allowing you to rapidly iterate on your Worker entirely in your browser.
```

> ## Bind a D1 database to a Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Bind a D1 database to a Worker
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

This guide assumes you have previously created a Worker, and a D1 database.

> Users new to D1 and/or Cloudflare Workers should visit the [D1 tutorial](/d1/get-started/) to install `wrangler` and deploy their first database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users new to D1 and/or Cloudflare Workers should read the [D1 tutorial](/d1/get-started/) to install `wrangler` and deploy their first database.
```

{{</Aside>}}

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. Go to [**Workers & Pages** > **Overview**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages).
3. Select an existing Worker.
4. Select the **Settings** tab.
5. Select the **Variables** sub-tab.

> 6. Scroll down to the **D1 Database Bindings** heading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Scroll down to the **D1 Database Bindings** heading.
```

> 7. Enter a variable name, such as `DB`, and pick the D1 database you wish to access from this Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Enter a variable name, such as `DB`, and select the D1 database you wish to access from this Worker.
```

> 8. Click **Save and deploy**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Select **Save and deploy**.
```

> ## Start a remote development session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Start a remote development session
```

> 1. Scroll to the top of the page and click **Quick edit**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the top of the page, select **Quick edit**.
```

> 2. Your Worker now has access to D1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Your Worker now has access to D1.
```

> Using the following Worker script, you can verify that the Worker has access to the bound D1 database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following Worker script to verify that the Worker has access to the bound D1 database:
```
